<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="darktable_cli_binary">
  <title>
  <tt>darktable-cli</tt>binary</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <keyword>darktable-cli</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>This binary starts the command line interface variant of darktable which allows exporting images.</p>
    <p>This variant does not open any display, so it will work in pure console mode without using any X11, wayland, etc.– this mode is useful for servers running background jobs.</p>
    <p>
    <tt>darktable-cli</tt>is called with the following command line parameters:</p>
    <codeblock xml:space="preserve">
darktable-cli &lt;input file&gt;|&lt;image folder&gt;
              [&lt;xmp file&gt;]
              &lt;output file&gt;
              [--width &lt;max width&gt;]
              [--height &lt;max height&gt;]
              [--bpp &lt;bpp&gt;]
              [--hq &lt;0|1|true|false&gt;]
              [--upscale &lt;0|1|true|false&gt;]
              [--style &lt;style name&gt;]
              [--style-overwrite]
              [--verbose]
              [--core &lt;darktable options&gt;]
</codeblock>
    <p>The user needs to supply an input filename and an output filename. All other parameters are optional. 
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>&lt;input file&gt;</dt>
        <dd>The name of the input file to export or the name of an folder containing input images which are to be exported.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>&lt;xmp file&gt;</dt>
        <dd>The optional name of an XMP sidecar file containing the history stack data to be applied during export. If this option is not given darktable will search for an XMP file that belongs to the given input file(s).</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>&lt;output file&gt;</dt>
        <dd>The name of the output file. darktable derives the export file format from the file extension. You can also use all the variables available in darktable's export module in the output filename (see 
        <xref href="../lighttable/export_selected.dita#export_selected" type="topic">Export selected</xref>). For obvious reasons this is mandatory if you use the program on an image folder containing multiple images.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>--width &lt;max width&gt;</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>This optional parameter allows to limit the width of the exported image to that number of pixels.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>--height &lt;max height&gt;</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>This optional parameter allows to limit the height of the exported image to that number of pixels.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>--bpp &lt;bpp&gt;</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>An optional parameter to define the bit depth of the exported image; allowed values depend on the file format. Currently this option is not yet functional. If you need to define the bit depth you need to use the following workaround:</p>
          <codeblock xml:space="preserve">
--core
--conf plugins/imageio/format/&lt;FORMAT&gt;/bpp=&lt;VALUE&gt;
</codeblock>
          <p>where &lt;FORMAT&gt; is the name of the selected output format.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>--hq &lt;0|1|true|false&gt;</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>A flag that defines whether to use high quality resampling during export (see 
          <xref href="../preferences/core_options.dita#core_options" type="topic">Core options</xref>). Defaults to true.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>--upscale &lt;0|1|true|false&gt;</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>A flag that defines whether allow upscaling during export. Defaults to false.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>--style &lt;style name&gt;</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Specify the name of a style to be applied during export. If a style is specified, the path to the darktable configuration directory must also be specified (i.e. --core --configdir ~/.config/darktable). Defaults to no style specified.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>--style-overwrite</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>The specified style overwrites the history stack instead of being appended to it.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>--verbose</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Enables verbose output.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>--core &lt;darktable options&gt;</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>All command line parameters following 
          <q>--core</q>are passed to the darktable core and handled as standard parameters. See 
          <xref href="darktable_binary.dita" type="topic">darktable binary</xref>for a detailed description.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
