<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="darktable_generate_cache_binary">
  <title>
  <tt>darktable-generate-cache</tt>binary</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <keyword>darktable-generate-cache</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>This binary updates darktable's thumbnail cache. You can start this program to generate all missing thumbnails in the background when your computer is idle.</p>
    <p>
    <tt>darktable-generate-cache</tt>is called with the following command line parameters:</p>
    <codeblock xml:space="preserve">
darktable-generate-cache
              [-h, --help]
              [--version]
              [--min-mip &lt;0-7&gt;] [-m, --max-mip &lt;0 - 7&gt;]
              [--min-imgid &lt;N&gt;] [--max-imgid &lt;N&gt;]
              [--core &lt;darktable options&gt;]
</codeblock>
    <p>All parameters are optional. If started without parameters 
    <tt>darktable-generate-cache</tt>uses reasonable defaults. 
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>-h, --help</dt>
        <dd>Gives usage information and terminates.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>--version</dt>
        <dd>Gives copyright and version information and terminates.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>--min-mip &lt;0 - 7&gt;</dt>
        <dt>-m, --max-mip &lt;0 - 7&gt;</dt>
        <dd>darktable can handle and store thumbnails with up to eight different resolution steps for each image. These parameters define which maximum resolution should be generated and default to a range of 0-2. There is normally no need to generate all possible resolutions here; missing ones will be automatically generated by darktable the moment they are needed. When asked to generate multiple resolutions at once, the lower-resolution images are quickly downsampled from the highest-resolution image.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>--min-imgid &lt;N&gt;</dt>
        <dt>--max-imgid &lt;N&gt;</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>Specifies the range of internal image IDs from the database to work on. If no range is given, darktable-generate-cache will process all images from the entire collection.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>--core &lt;darktable options&gt;</dt>
        <dd>
          <p>All command line parameters following 
          <q>--core</q>are passed to the darktable core and handled as standard parameters. See 
          <xref href="darktable_binary.dita" type="topic">darktable binary</xref>for a detailed description.</p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
