<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="darktable_chart_binary">
  <title>
  <tt>darktable-chart</tt>binary</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <keyword>darktable-chart</keyword>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>This binary is a dedicated utility to create styles out of pairs of images such as RAW+JPEG with in-camera processing. Details about its usage can be found in 
    <xref href="../topics/darktable_chart.dita#darktable_chart" type="topic">Using darktable-chart</xref>.</p>
    <p>
    <tt>darktable-chart</tt>either starts a GUI or is used as a command-line program.</p>
    <codeblock xml:space="preserve">
darktable-chart
              [--help]
              [&lt;input Lab pfm file&gt;]
              [&lt;cht file&gt;]
              [&lt;reference cgats/it8 or Lab pfm file&gt;]
</codeblock>
    <p>All parameters are optional, however, if you want to supply the second file name you also need to supply the first one etc. Starting 
    <tt>darktable-chart</tt>this way opens a special GUI (details can be found in 
    <xref href="../topics/darktable_chart.dita#darktable_chart" type="topic">Using darktable-chart</xref>). 
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>--help</dt>
        <dd>Gives usage information and terminates.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>&lt;input Lab pfm file&gt;</dt>
        <dd>Opens the utility with the given file as source image. The input file needs to be in Lab Portable Float Map format.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>&lt;cht file&gt;</dt>
        <dd>Specifies a chart file describing the layout of the used color reference chart.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>&lt;reference cgats/it8 or Lab pfm file&gt;</dt>
        <dd>Specifies the reference values, either as measured values according to the CGATS standard, or as a reference image in Lab Portable Float Map format.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl></p>
    <p>Alternatively 
    <tt>darktable-chart</tt>can be used as a command line program to generate darktable style files out of previously saved CSV files.</p>
    <codeblock xml:space="preserve">
darktable-chart
              --csv
              &lt;csv file&gt;
              &lt;number patches&gt;
              &lt;output dtstyle file&gt;
</codeblock>
    <p>All parameters are mandatory. 
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>&lt;csv file&gt;</dt>
        <dd>A CSV file previously saved from within 
        <tt>darktable-chart</tt>.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>&lt;number patches&gt;</dt>
        <dd>The number of color patches to be used in the 
        <i>color look up table</i>settings of the created style.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>&lt;output dtstyle file&gt;</dt>
        <dd>The name of the style file to be created.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl></p>
  </body>
</topic>
