
=head1 NAME

darktable - a digital photography workflow application

=head1 SYNOPSIS

C<darktable [options] [IMG_1234.RAW]>

Options:

    --help        
    --version
    -d {cache,control,dev,fswatch}

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<darktable> is a digital photography workflow application for B<Linux> 
and B<Mac OS X> in the lines of B<Adobe Lightroom> and B<Apple Aperture>.

The application is designed to ease editing and consistent processing of large 
photo sessions and provides a easy to use digital light-table and a set 
of sophisticated postprocessing tools.

Most processing is done in 32-bit floating point per channel mode in device independent 
B<CIE L*a*b*> color space. B<darktable> is also fully color managed, which gives 
you full control over the look of the photos.

The application relies on a modern plug-in architecture thus making it easy for 
3rd party developers to extend the existing capabilities of the application. 
All light-table and darkroom features are implemented as plug-ins, so you can 
create your plug-ins reusing existing code.

=head1 OTHER INFO

Please visit B<darktable>'s website for news, bug tracker and forum: L<http://darktable.sourceforge.net>

=head1 KEYBINDINGS

All modes:

=over

=item B<F11>

Switch between fullscreen and normal modes of the application's window

=item B<Tab>

Show/hide sidebars

=item B<e>

Switch between lighttable and darkroom modes

=back

Lighttable mode:

=over

=item B<1>

Zoom in on image under cursor

=item B<2, 3>

Adjust zoom

=item B<4>

Zoom out completely

=item B<q>

Zoom out to fit all images in one row inside viewport, center on image under cursor

=item B<a, s, d, w>

Move around (arrows also work)

=back

Darkroom mode:

=over

=item B<1, 2, 3>

Zoom to 1:1, fill, and fit, respectively

=back

=head1 BUGS

Please use the mailing list to report all the bugs you run into.

=head1 AUTHORS

The principal developer of darktable is Johannes Hanika. The (hopefully)
complete list of contributors to the project is:

DREGGNAUTHORS

This man page was written by Alexandre Prokoudine 
E<lt>alexandre.prokoudine@gmail.comE<gt>.

=head1 HISTORY

The project was started by Johannes Hanika in early 2009 to fill the gap 
(or, rather, a black hole) of a digital photography workflow tool on Linux.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

B<Copyright (C)> 2009-2010 by Authors.

B<darktable> is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GPL v3 or (at your option) any later version.

=for comment
$Date$
