
=head1 NAME

darktable - a digital photography workflow application

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    darktable [options] [IMG_1234.{RAW,...}|image_folder/]

Options:

    -d {all,cache,camctl,control,dev,fswatch,
        input,lighttable,masks,memory,nan,opencl,
        perf,pwstorage,sql}
    --disable-opencl 
    --library <library file> 
    --datadir <data directory> 
    --moduledir <module directory>
    --tmpdir <tmp directory> 
    --configdir <user config directory>
    --cachedir <user cache directory>
    --localedir <locale directory>
    --luacmd <lua command>
    --conf <key>=<value>
    --help        
    --version

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<darktable> is a digital photography workflow application for B<Linux> 
and B<Mac OS X> in the lines of B<Adobe Lightroom> and B<Apple Aperture>.

The application is designed to ease editing and consistent processing of large 
photo sessions and provides a easy to use digital light-table and a set 
of sophisticated post-processing tools.

Most processing is done in 32-bit floating point per channel mode in device independent 
B<CIE L*a*b*> color space. B<darktable> is also fully color managed, which gives 
you full control over the look of the photos.

The application relies on a modern plug-in architecture thus making it easy for 
3rd party developers to extend the existing capabilities of the application. 
All light-table and darkroom features are implemented as plug-ins, so you can 
create your plug-ins reusing existing code.

=head1 COMMAND LINE ARGUMENTS

=over

=item B<IMG_1234.RAW or image_folder/>

You may optionally supply the filename of an image or the name of a
folder containing image files. If a filename is given darktable starts
in darkroom view with that file opened. If a folder is given darktable
starts in lighttable view with the content of that folder as the
current collection.

=item B<< -d <debugoption> >>

This option enables debug output to the terminal. There are several
subsystems of darktable and debugging of each of them can be activated
separately. You can use this option multiple times if you want
debugging output of more than one subsystem.

A few of those debugoptions are:

=over

=item B<control>

Enable job queue debugging. If you redirect darktable's output to
B<control.log> and call B<./tools/create_control_svg.sh control.log>,
you will get a nice B<control.svg> with a visualization of the
threads' work.

=item B<cache>

This will give you a lot of debugging info about the mipmap cache for
light table mode. If compiled in debug mode, this will also tell you
where in the code a certain buffer has last been locked.

=item B<perf>

Use this for performance tweaking your darkroom modules. It will
rdtsc-measure the runtimes of all plugins and print them to stdout.

=item B<all>

Enable all debugging output.

=back

=item B<--disable-opencl>

Prevent darktable from initializing the OpenCL subsystem. Use this
option in case darktable crashes at startup due to a defective OpenCL
implementation.

=item B<< --library <library file> >>

darktable keeps image information in an sqlite database for fast
access. The default location of that database file is
C<$HOME/.config/darktable/library.db>. You may give an alternative
location, e.g. if you want to do some experiments without compromising
your original library.db. If the database file does not exist,
darktable creates it for you. You may also give C<:memory:> as a
library file in which case the database is kept in system memory - all
changes are discarded when darktable terminates.

=item B<< --datadir <data directory> >>

This option defines the directory where darktable finds its runtime
data. The default place depends on your installation. Typical places
are C</opt/darktable/share/darktable/> and
C</usr/share/darktable/>.

=item B<< --moduledir <module directory> >>

darktable has a modular structure and organizes its modules as shared
libraries for loading at runtime. With this option you tell darktable
where to look for its shared libraries. The default place depends on
your installation; typical places are
C</opt/darktable/lib64/darktable/> and C</usr/lib64/darktable/>.

=item B<< --tmpdir <tmp directory> >>

The place where darktable stores its temporary files. If this option
is not supplied darktable uses the system default.

=item B<< --configdir <config directory> >>

This option defines the directory where darktable stores the user
specific configuration. The default place is
C<$HOME/.config/darktable/>.

=item B<< --cachedir <cache directory> >>

darktable keeps a cache of image thumbnails for fast image preview and
of precompiled OpenCL binaries for fast startup. By default the cache
is located in C<$HOME/.cache/darktable/>. There may exist multiple
thumbnail caches in parallel - one for each library file.

=item B<< --localedir <locale directory> >>

The place where darktable finds its language specific text strings.
The default place depends on your installation. Typical places are
C</opt/darktable/share/locale/> and C</usr/share/locale/>.

=item B<< --luacmd <lua command> >>

A string containing lua commands to execute after lua initialization. These
commands will be run after your C<luarc> file.

If lua is not compiled in, this option will be accepted but won't do anything

=item B<< --conf <key>=<value> >>

darktable supports a rich set of configuration parameters which the
user defines in C<darktablerc> - darktable's configuration file in the
user config directory. You may temporarily overwrite individual
settings on the command line with this option - however, these
settings will not be stored in C<darktablerc>.

=back

=head1 DEFAULT KEYBINDINGS

=head3 All modes

=over

=item B<l>

Switch to lightroom view

=item B<d>

Switch to darkroom view

=item B<t>

Switch to tethered capture view

=item B<m>

Switch to map view

=item B<F7>

Decrease contrast

=item B<F8>

Increase contrast

=item B<F9>

Decrease brightness

=item B<F10>

Increase brightness

=item B<Esc>

Leave fullscreen mode

=item B<< <Primary>q >>

Quit

=item B<period>

Switch between lighttable and darkroom views

=item B<F11>

Switch between fullscreen and normal modes of the application's window

=item B<< <Primary>h >>

Show/hide header

=item B<Tab>

Show/hide sidebars

=back

=head3 Lighttable mode

=over

=item B<< g, <shift>g >>

Navigate to top, bottom row

=item B<PageUp, PageDown>

Navigate one page up, down

=item B<'>

Scroll center

=item B<Down, Left, Right, Up>

Scroll down, left, right, up

=item B<z>

Preview image

=item B<F1, F2, F3, F4, F5>

Color labels: toggle red, yellow, green, blue and purple

=item B<1, 2, 3, 4, 5>

Star rating

=item B<0>

Strip all stars

=item B<r>

Mark as rejected

=item B<l>

Realign images to the grid

=item B<alt-1>

Zoom in on first visible image

=item B<alt-2, 3>

Adjust zoom

=item B<alt-4>

Zoom out completely

=item B<< <Primary>a >>

Select all images

=item B<< <Primary><Shift>a >>

Select no images

=item B<< <Primary>i >>

Invert selection

=item B<< <Primary>g, <Primary><Shift>g >>

Group/ungroup selected images

=item B<Delete>

Remove image from collection

=item B<< <Primary>c, <Primary><Shift>c >>

Copy all, selected history

=item B<< <Primary>v, <Primary><Shift>v >>

Paste all, selected history

=back

=head3 Darkroom mode

=over

=item B<alt-1, 2, 3>

Zoom to 1:1, fill, and fit, respectively

=item B<ctrl-f>

show/hide film strip

=item B<Space, Backspace>

Step to next, previous image

=item B<< <Primary>e >>

Export current image

=item B<o>

Toggle show of over- and under-exposure

=item B<< <Primary>c, <Primary><Shift>c >>

Copy all, selected history

=item B<< <Primary>v, <Primary><Shift>v >>

Paste all, selected history

=item B<g>

Toggle gamut check

=item B<s>

Toggle softproofing

=item B<Enter>

In Crop & Rotate module, commit the crop

=item B<[, ]>

In Flip module, rotate 90 degrees ccw, cw

=back

=head3 Tethered mode

=over

=item B<< <Primary>f >>

Show/hide film strip

=item B<v>

Toggle live view

=back

=head3 Map mode

=over

=item B<< <Primary>f >>

Show/hide film strip

=item B<< <Primary>z >>

Undo

=item B<< <Primary>r >>

Redo

=back

=head3 Film strip (when the cursor is on top of the film strip)

=over

=item B<F1, F2, F3, F4, F5>

Color labels: toggle red, yellow, green, blue and purple

=item B<1, 2, 3, 4, 5>

Star rating

=item B<0>

Strip all stars

=item B<r>

Mark as rejected

=item B<< <Primary>d >>

Duplicate image

=item B<< <Primary>c, <Primary><Shift>c >>

Copy all, selected history

=item B<< <Primary>v, <Primary><Shift>v >>

Paste all, selected history

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<darktable-cli(1)|darktable-cli(1)>

=head1 OTHER INFO

Please visit B<darktable>'s website for news, bug tracker and forum: L<http://www.darktable.org/>

=head1 RELATED

=over

=item B<darktable-viewer> screensaver version of darktable. Shows the last active collection in full screen as a slideshow.

=back

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Please use the bug tracker on
L<http://www.darktable.org/redmine/projects/darktable/issues/> to report
bugs, feature requests and so on.

=head1 AUTHORS

The principal developer of darktable is Johannes Hanika. The (hopefully)
complete list of contributors to the project is:

DREGGNAUTHORS

This man page was written by Alexandre Prokoudine 
E<lt>alexandre.prokoudine@gmail.comE<gt> and Richard Levitte
E<lt>richard@levittr.orgE<gt>.

=head1 HISTORY

The project was started by Johannes Hanika in early 2009 to fill the gap 
(or, rather, a black hole) of a digital photography workflow tool on Linux.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

B<Copyright (C)> 2009-2013 by Authors.

B<darktable> is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GPL v3 or (at your option) any later version.

=for comment
$Date$
