<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="gui_options_lighttable" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Lighttable</title>
  <body>
    <p>
      <b>don't use embedded preview JPEG but half-size raw</b>
    </p>
    <p>Check this option to not use the embedded JPEG from the raw file but process the raw data. This is slower. (default off).</p>
    <p>
      <b>high quality thumb processing from size</b>
    </p>
    <p>If the thumbnails size is greater than this value, it will be processed using the full quality rendering path which is better but slower (default 720p).</p>
    <p>
      <b>enable extended thumb overlay</b>
    </p>
    <p>If enabled adds additional information to the thumbnail under the mouse cursor: image name, exposure time, aperture, focal length, ISO value (default off).</p>
    <p>
      <b>use single-click in the collect panel</b>
    </p>
    <p>(default off). In single-click mode, you can select range of value directly with the mouse.</p>
    <p>
      <b>expand a single lighttable module at a time</b>
    </p>
    <p>Controls how lighttable panels are expanded. If this option is enabled, expanding a panel by 
    <i>clicking</i>collapses any currently expanded panel. If you want to expand a panel without collapsing the others you do so with 
    <i>Shift+click</i>. Disabling this option reverts the meaning of 
    <i>click</i>and 
    <i>Shift+click</i>(default off).</p>
    <p>
      <b>scroll to lighttable modules when expanded/collapsed</b>
    </p>
    <p>With this option enabled the lighttable side panels will scroll a module to the top when it is expanded or collapsed (default off).</p>
    <p>
      <b>rating an image one star twice will not zero out the rating</b>
    </p>
    <p>Normally clicking a one star rating twice will set a zero star rating to that image. When checking this option a second click on a one star rating will keep that rating (default off).</p>
  </body>
</topic>
