
=head1 NAME

darktable-viewer - a stand-alone slideshow viewer that displays the images of your current collection fullscreen

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    darktable-viewer [-h, --help; --version] [--random] [--repeat] [--core <darktable options>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<darktable> is a digital photography workflow application for B<Linux>, B<Mac OS X> and several other B<Unices>.
It's described further in L<darktable(1)|darktable(1)>.

B<darktable-viewer> is a stand-alone slideshow viewer that displays the images of your current collection fullscreen.
Press B<ESC> to stop.

=head1 OPTIONS

All parameters are optional.
If started without parameters B<darktable-viewer> uses reasonable defaults.

=over

=item B<-h, --help>

Gives usage information and terminates.

=item B<--version>

Gives copyright and version information and terminates.

=item B<--random>

Displays images in random instead of the default sequential order.

=item B<--repeat>

Continues the slideshow in an endless loop instead of terminating after the last image.

=item B<< --core <darktable options>  >>

All command line parameters following B<--core> are passed
to the darktable core and handled as standard parameters.
See L<darktable(1)|darktable(1)> for a detailed description of the options.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<darktable(1)|darktable(1)>

=head1 AUTHORS

The principal developer of darktable is Johannes Hanika.
The (hopefully) complete list of contributors to the project is:

DREGGNAUTHORS -- don't translate this line!

This man page was written by Ulrich Pegelow E<lt>ulrich.pegelow@tongareva.deE<gt> as part of the usermanual.
It was turned into a man page by Tobias Ellinghaus E<lt>me@houz.orgE<gt>.


=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

B<Copyright (C)> 2009-2015 by Authors.

B<darktable> is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GPL v3 or (at your option) any later version.

=for comment
$Date: 2015-11-17$
$Release: 2.0$
