
=head1 NAME

darktable-cli - a command line darktable variant

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    darktable-cli IMG_1234.{RAW,...} [<xmp file>] <output file> [options] [--core <darktable options>]

Options:

    --width <max width>
    --height <max height>
    --bpp <bpp>
    --hq <0|1|true|false>
    --upscale <0|1|true|false>
    --verbose

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<darktable> is a digital photography workflow application for B<Linux>, B<Mac OS X> and several other B<Unices>.
It's described further in L<darktable(1)|darktable(1)>.

B<darktable-cli> is a command line variant to be used to export images
given the raw file and the accompanying xmp file.

=head1 OPTIONS

The user needs to supply an input filename and an output filename.
All other parameters are optional.

=over

=item B<< <input file>  >>

The name of the input file to export.

=item B<< <xmp file>  >>

The optional name of an XMP sidecar file containing the history stack
data to be applied during export.
If this option is not given darktable will search for an XMP file that
belongs to the given input file.

=item B<< <output file>  >>

The name of the output file.
darktable derives the export file format from the file extension.
You can also use all the variables available in B<darktable>'s export module in the output filename.

=item B<< --width <max width>  >>

This optional parameter allows one to limit the width of the exported
image to that number of pixels.

=item B<< --height <max height>  >>

This optional parameter allows one to limit the height of the exported
image to that number of pixels.

=item B<< --bpp <bpp>  >>

An optional parameter to define the bit depth of the exported image;
allowed values depend on the file format.
Currently this option is not yet functional.
If you need to define the bit depth you need to use the following workaround:

    --core --conf plugins/imageio/format/<FORMAT>/bpp=<VALUE>

where B<FORMAT> is the name of the selected output format, for example B<png>.

=item B<< --hq <0|1|true|false>  >>

A flag that defines whether to use high quality resampling during export.
Defaults to true.

=item B<< --upscale <0|1|true|false>  >>

A flag that defines whether to allow upscaling during export.
Defaults to false.

=item B<< --verbose  >>

Enables verbose output.

=item B<< --core <darktable options>  >>

All command line parameters following B<--core> are passed
to the darktable core and handled as standard parameters.
See L<darktable(1)|darktable(1)> for a detailed description of the options.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<darktable(1)|darktable(1)>

=head1 AUTHORS

The principal developer of darktable is Johannes Hanika.
The (hopefully) complete list of contributors to the project is:

DREGGNAUTHORS -- don't translate this line!

This man page was written by Richard Levitte E<lt>richard@levitte.orgE<gt>.
Additions were made by Tobias Ellinghaus E<lt>me@houz.orgE<gt>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

B<Copyright (C)> 2009-2017 by Authors.

B<darktable> is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GPL v3 or (at your option) any later version.

=for comment
$Date: 2017-01-20$
$Release: 2.3$
