<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="interpolationMethod.d12e7166" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>interpolation method</title>
  <body>
    <p>The interpolation is the process by which a continuous curve is derived from a few punctual nodes. As this process is never perfect, several methods are offered that can alleviate the potential issues you may encounter with some nodes setups.</p>
    <p>Arguably, the most visually pleasing method is the 
    <q>cubic spline</q>. Since it gives smooth curves, the contrast in the image is better enhanced. However, this method is very sensitive to the nodes position, and can produce cusps and oscillations when the nodes are too close to each other, or when there are too many of them. This method works best when there are only 4 to 5 nodes, evenly spaced.</p>
    <p>The 
    <q>centripetal spline</q>is a method designed specifically to avoid cusps and oscillations, but as a drawback it will follow the nodes more loosely. It is very robust, no matter the number of nodes and their spacing, but will produce a more faded and dull contrast.</p>
    <p>The 
    <q>monotonic spline</q>is a method designed specifically to give a monotonic interpolation, meaning that there will be none of the oscillations the cubic spline may produce. This method is very suitable when you try to build an analytical function from a node interpolation (for example: exponential, logarithm, power, etc.). Such functions are provided as presets. It is a good trade-off between the two aforementioned methods.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
