<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"topic.dtd">
<topic id="darktable_chart_reference_values" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Reference values</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords />
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>The 
    <q>reference values</q>tab determines the target values to which the source image is to be modified by the resulting style. You can either supply reference values in the form of measured data of your color reference card (mode 
    <q>cie/it8 file</q>), or you supply a photographic image (mode 
    <q>color chart image</q>) much in the same way as described above. This second image must also be supplied in Lab Portable Float Map format. There is no need to supply the chart file again as 
    <filepath>darktable-chart</filepath>takes the same one as defined under 
    <q>source image</q>. You only need to again align the layout grid and the image and potentially adjust the 
    <q>size</q>slider.</p>
    <p>In a typical use case the second image will be based on a JPEG file produced in-camera. This way you can create a style to simulate the in-camera processing within darktable.</p>
    <p>In the lower text output frame you see the color values extracted from the available data for each individual color patch. The first column gives the name of the patch, the second and third column show the corresponding color values of the source image in RGB and Lab format, respectively. The fourth column contains the Lab value coming from the reference (or from the chart file if no reference image has been given). Finally, the fifth and sixth columns display how strongly source and reference values deviate in terms of delta E values.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
